#summary GSoC student application template

= Application Template =

----
== 1. Personal information ==

 * Name: Your name
 * Contact: Your contact email, IM contact, IRC contact, etc. Please, enlist various contacts.
 * Country: Your country of citizenship
 * University: University or college where you are enrolled as a student

----
== 2. Experiences and motivation ==

=== Education ===
 * Please, briefly describe your education and academic background.

=== Experiences ===
 * Do you have previous experience with the technologies required for the implementation? (Please describe your experience in a few sentences)
 * Do you have any work experience? Please mention projects you have participated in.

=== Motivation ===
 * Why are you interested in the proposed ideas?
 * Why are you attending at Google Summer of Code?

----
== 3. Area of interest ==

=== Project ===
 * What is the most interesting idea you are proposing to work on?
 * Briefly describe why are you interested in a specific area?
 * Do you have any previous experiences (academic or work) in a particular area?

=== Proposed solution ===
 * Which technologies/frameworks do you prefer in order to solve the problem?
 * Can you setup the scope for the solution? Please, keep in mind the GSoC takes only 10 weeks, so the scope should reflect this time period. If you would preffer to start earlier, please include this additional work also in the time planning.
 * Please, define the project milestones in which the isolated part of the solution will be delivered.

=== Used metodology ===
 * Which tools do you prefer for communication, backlogs, for issue tracking, testing and so on?
 * Please, describe briefly the metodology you want to use? What will be your effort (in percentage) for tests writing, documentation in comparision to creating the source code?
 * How do you ensure the best code quality, reusability and extendability?

=== Allocation ===
 * What is your expected allocation in hours/week?
 * What are your working hours with respecting the UTC time?
 * Where will you work from during the GSoC 2011?

=== Vision ===
 * What is your future vision in a particular area? 
 * Do you preffer to continue working on the project also in the future?