#summary GSoC 2011 Registration questions and answers

===Organization Name:===
AcrIS

===Description:===
AcrIS is a modern framework serving as a base for applications, web sites and portals. It provides various tools and libraries to better application development. AcrIS is build on top of the Google web toolkit and provides sophisticated solution for security, beans binding, JSON protocol, reporting, site crawling and offers useful project skelets integrated with maven and many production-ready frameworks like hibernate, spring, tomcat, etc. and represents prepared solution in box ready to use for any web application.

===Home page:===
http://acris.googlecode.com

===Main Organization License:===
Apache License, 2.0

===Why is your organization applying to participate in GSoC 2011? What do you hope to gain by participating?===
Google Summer of Code is a great opportunity for the students to contribute to the open source projects and to join the open source community. We will gladly help them to adapt into the community during their start time. On the other side we hope that our developer's community will grow up and there will be more people involved in the project contribution. We also hope that we will be able to find a new committers that come up with the interesting ideas that can improve our project which can be also helpful for many other people that want to create a business application.

As a matter of fact that we are really focused towards the community expansion, we can mention our ambitions in organizing a local GTUG sessions in Slovakia with more than 100 active members (Please, see the details in the meetup page: http://www.meetup.com/GTUG-Slovakia/)

===If accepted, would this be your first year participating in GSoC?===
Yes

===Did your organization participate in past GSoCs? If so, please summarize your involvement and the successes and challenges of your participation.===
We did not participate in the past.

===If your organization participated in past GSoCs, please let us know the ratio of students passing to students allocated, e.g. 2006: 3/6 for 3 out of 6 students passed in 2006.===
n/a

===What is the URL for your ideas page?===
http://code.google.com/p/acris/wiki/GoogleSummerOfCode2011

===What is the main development mailing list for your organization? This question will be shown to students who would like to get more information about applying to your organization for GSoC 2011. If your organization uses more than one list, please make sure to include a description of the list so students know which to use.===
Official development mailing list is hosted on Google groups:
http://groups.google.com/group/acris

All questions related to the GSoC can be asked directly by contacting mentors:
 * Peter Simun (simun@seges.sk)
 * Ladislav Gazo (gazo@seges.sk)

===What is the main IRC channel for your organization?===
http://groups.google.com/group/acris

===Does your organization have an application template you would like to see students use? If so, please provide it now. Please note that it is a very good idea to ask students to provide you with their contact information as part of your template. Their contact details will not be shared with you automatically via the GSoC 2011 site.===
http://code.google.com/p/acris/wiki/GSoC_2011_Application_template

===What criteria did you use to select the individuals who will act as mentors for your organization? Please be as specific as possible.===
Selection was based on the fact that mentors should have a deep knowledge of the code base. Mentors should also have a strong architecture and development skills so they can successfully coordinate students. 

Selected mentors are the core members of our development team and are really familiar with all implementation details. They allocated appropriate time slot in order to mentor students, help them to find  correct solution and they are prepared to design overall architecture for the selected solution.

===What is your plan for dealing with disappearing students?===
The motivation is the key to the success - that is our rule and that is the reason why we are looking for the motivated students which are really interested in the proposed ideas.

We will constantly motivate students by supporting them with professional advices during the development. We know that in spite of intensive support there might by the cases when students lose their motivation and they quit the project prematurely. Even this cannot be avoided we will keep development in progress and we will continue in the students work if there is a relevant work done.

We hope, that only early and regular communication with the students can guarantee the success, therefore multiple synchronization meetings during the week will be required. This helps us to detect problems in the early stages and help us (and to student also) to prevent from unwanted failures.

===What is your plan for dealing with disappearing mentors?===
As was mentioned above, both mentors are very active and long-time project developers thus it is not expected they will disappear. In every case, there are two more mentors allocated to help them with the mentoring or to substitute disappeared mentors.

===What steps will you take to encourage students to interact with your project's community before, during and after the program?===
We understand that it's very difficult for new people to interact with the community therefore we would try to keep communication in very friendly manner, so the students don't have to worry to ask anything. Because this is the first time we are applying to GSoC, we hope that interesting questions can start new and productive discussions. We will prefer public communication channels in order to communicate with the students so it will be possible for the other members to join the discussions, bring helpfull ideas, hints and suggestions. We believe that this approach will predetermine community interaction as the most effective way of sharing the knowledge or how to quickly solve the problems that occurs.

After the GSoC program, the most exciting part begins, student can publish his/her results to the community for the public review. This allows him to really grow with the community, to improve the project and to be a part of the community.

===If you are a small or new organization applying to GSoC, please list a larger, established GSoC organization or a Googler that can vouch for you here.===
n/a

===If you are a large organization who is vouching for a small organization applying to GSoC for their first time this year, please list their name and why you think they'd be good candidates for GSoC here:===
n/a

===Anything else you'd like to tell us?===
We are looking forward to the GSoC and we hope, that our mentors helps to the students (not only during the GSoC program, but also in the future) and on the other hand, we hope, that many clever students help us to improve our product and we will be able to introduce more and more features in the future releases. Thank you for this opportunity.

===Backup Admin (Link ID):===
lgazo