#summary AcrIS Introduction

= Introduction =

AcrIS is modern framework serving as a base for applications, web sites and portals. It provides various tools and libraries to ease daily development. Synapso is using AcrIS as a platform for building dynamic web sites.

Goal of AcrIS is to provide *GWT Enterprise components and tools* that will stick with and extends the core GWT. AcrIS will always try to reuse and glue together various proven or promising libraries and provide integration shelter.

= AcrIS consists of the following modules =

*<a href="http://code.google.com/p/acris/wiki/GWTJsonizer">GWT Jsonizer</a>* follows the core AcrIS ideas - efficient and easy application development, mostly oriented on annotations - and introduce powerfull way of processing JSON requests and transforming them into real Java POJO objects in really simple way. Lets see a <a href="http://acris-gwt.appspot.com/sk.seges.acris.demo.Json/Json.html">demo</a> on AppEngine where you can modify the input JSON text and deserialize it to the predefined POJO in fully automatic way (just using an annotations). 

*GWT Beans binding* extension provides binding between Java beans and GWT widgets using annotations. See demo <a href="http://acris-gwt.appspot.com/sk.seges.acris.demo.Binding/Binding.html">on acris</a> App engine envirovment. You can see further details on <a href="http://code.google.com/p/acris/wiki/BeansBinding">wiki pages</a>.

*GWT offline content generator* used in order to support search engines to work with pages generated by GWT Javascript. The idea is based on generating offline HTML version of the generated page which search engines can process and index. While search engines are processing the offline content, user with enabled javascript have JS version available.

*GWT security* represents complete and reusable solutions for security GWT applicatio also on client side and server side. Solution is also responsible for session propagation between client and server when using asynchronous RPC calls. See details on [http://code.google.com/p/acris/wiki/Security wiki pages]

*Proxy servlet* used for architecture when client and server are indenpedently and separated from each other. Due to same origin policy proxy servlet will proxy each request between client and server thus server and client can be located on different location/port. See details on [http://code.google.com/p/acris/wiki/SeparateClientAndServer wiki pages]

*Utilities for GWT application* many useful classes used in GWT appliation generally.

== To be released (open-sourced) ==

*AcrisWeb* is an universal GWT website and can serve as the building block for all GWT developers, that don't want to waste time implementing the base layout of a web application. AcrisWeb contains standard navigation/webflow mechanisms, so it is possible to create a pure GWT full-featured website with it.

*Components* are various panels, widgets and helpers that fastens the development and releases you from implementing it on your own. Examples: UploadButton, BeanTable, OptionPane, support for themes for components, event bus,...